First built in 1744, this compound is believed to be the oldest pagoda in greater Ho Chi Minh city. The last reconstruction here was in 1900, so the architecture, layout and ornamentation remain almost unaltered by the modernist renovations that have transformed so many of Vietnam's religious structures. Ten monks live at this Vietnamese Buddhist pagoda, which also incorporates aspects of Taoism and Confucianism. It is well worth the trip out here from central Sai Gon, as one couple observed : 
"It's incredibly beautiful and best of all we met Da Le Tan, a caretaker who worked as an interpreter for the US Army between 1968 and 1975. While we were at Giac Lam, it began pouring down rain. He invited is to stay until the rain had stopped, made us tea and sat sown to talk to us. We were also joined by some students, who are attracted to the compound because of the peace and quiet - they can settle sown there to do some serious study without distraction. For us, Giac Lam was one of the highlights of Saigon." - Debbie Hanlon & Paul Fewster.
Outside the main building, there is a bodhi (bodhi, or pipal) tree that was a gilf from Sri Lanka, and a white statue of Quan Am (Avalokitecvara, Guanyin in Chinese, the Goddess of Mercy) standing on a lotus blossom. Inside there ear funeral tablets, portraints of deceased monk, a large bell with list of deceased people names.
The roof line of the main building is decorated both inside and outside with unusual blue-and-white porcelain plates. Through the main entrance is a reception hall lined with funeral tablets and photos of the deceased. Roughly in the centre of the hall, near an old French chandelier, is a figure of 18-armed Chuan De, another form of the Godness of Mercy. Note the varced hardwood colums which bear gilded Vietnamese inscriptions written in 'nom' characters. The wall to the left is covered with portraits of great monks from previous generations. Their names and other biographical information are recorded in the vertical red tablets in gold nom characters. A box for donations sits nearby. Shoes should be remove when passing from the rough red floor tiles to the smaller, white-black-grey tiles.
On the other side of the wall from the monks' funeral tablets is the main sanctuary, which is filled with countless gilded figures. On the dais in the centre of the back row sits A Di Da (pronounced 'AH-zee-dah'), the Buddha of the {ast (Amitabha). To his right is Kasyape and to his left Anand; both are disples of the Thich Ca Buddha (the historical Buddha Skayamuni, whose real name was Siddhartha Gautama). Directly in front of A Di Da is a statue of the Thich Ca Buddha as a child. As aways, he is clothed in a yellow robe.
The fat laughing fellow, seated with five children climbing all over him, is Ameda. To his left is Ngoc Hoang, the Taoist Jade Emperor, who presides over a world of innumerable supernatural beings. In the front row is a statue of the Thich Ca Buddha with two Bodhisattvas on each side. On the altas along the side walls of the sanctuary are various Bodhisattvas and the Judges of the 10 Regions of Hell. Each of the judges is holding a scroll resembling the handle of a fork. 
The red and gold Christmas tree-shaped object is a wooden altar bearing 49 lamps and 49 miniature statues of Bodhisattvas. People pray for sick relatives or ask for happiness by contriburing kerosene for use in the lammps. Petitioners' names and those of ill family members are written on slips of paper, which are attached to the branches of the 'tree'.
The frame of the large bronze bell in the corner looks like a university bulletin board because petitioners have attached to it lists of names: those of people seeking happiness and those of the sick and the dead, placed there by relatives. It is belived that when the bell is rung, the soundwill resonate to the heavens below, carrying with it the attached supplications.
Prayers here consist of chanting tothe accompaniment of drums, bellss and gongs and they follow a traditional tire seldom performed these days. Prayers are held daily from 4 to 50 am. 11 am to noon, 4 to 5 pm and 7 to 9 pm.
Giac Lam Pagoda is about 3 km from Cholon at 118 Lac Long Quan Street in the Tan Binh District. Beware : the numbering on Lac Long Quan Street is extremely confusing, starting over form '1' several times and at one point jumping to four digits. In many places, odd and even are in the same side of the street.
The best way to get to Giac Lam from Cholon is to take Nguyen Chi Thanh Boulevard or 3/2 Boulevard to Le Dai Hanh Street. Head north-west on Le Dai Hanh Street and turn right into Lac Long Quan Street, walk 100m and the pagoda gate will be yout left. It is open to visittors from 6 am to 9 pm.


